well Israel has declared war on Hamas
and bound to destroy its ability to
govern Gaza the militant Palestinian
islamist group it's considered a
terrorist organization by the European
Union and the United States here's more
now on what Hamas
represents the Gaza Strip where the
Israeli Defense Forces have been
striking targets belonging to the
militant islamist Hamas and Palestinian
Islamic Jihad
groups
it's from this densely populated Enclave
lying between Israel Egypt and the
Mediterranean Sea that Hamas has for
years launched Rockets into
Israel the group has governed the over 2
million residents in Gaza since
2007 since then Gaza has been seen as
enemy territory by Israel and has
remained largely sealed off Israel
controls access by land sea and air the
militant islamist group rejects any
peace process with Israel and calls for
its
destruction Hamas is designated a
terrorist group by Israel the United
States the EU and the United Kingdom
among other countries Hamas is part of a
regional Alliance that includes Iran
Syria and the islamist organization
Hezbollah in Lebanon which opposes US
policies to towards the Middle East and
Israel the EU and other countries have
deemed Hezbollah a terrorist
organization Hamas has carried out
attacks on Israel which have led to four
major military conflicts with the
Israeli Army in 2008 2009 2012
2014 and
2021 Hamas has warned that this latest
wave of attacks are just the beginning
and and called on other groups to join
the
fight Hamas depends on foreign aid of
all kinds a lot of that Aid comes from
Iran but Iran's supreme leader Ayatollah
alih hamani he says that tan had no role
in the Hamas terrorist attacks on
Saturday at the same time he praised the
operation as an irreparable military and
intelligence defeat Iran and Hamas share
the declared aim of destroy in the state
of
Israel my next guest now is Danny covitz
he is with the institute for National
Security studies in Tel Aviv he
previously headed up Iranian research
for Israel's Military Intelligence it's
good to have you with us this evening
Iran has denied being involved in these
attacks
whatsoever is that even
plausible well uh we need to understand
the relations between Hamas and Iran
Iran is sending money uh to Iran uh of
course sending arms to Iran training in
operatives but at the end of the day uh
Hamas is a Palestinian terrorist
movement in a way that it's solely
independent especially in the Gaza Strip
so there is of course the support of
Iran to Hamas activity but tactically
speaking what we saw today what we saw
in the last couple of days is attack
carried out by Hamas operated by Hamas
and Kamas doesn't need the approval of
Iran to launch this attack so in that
regard um it is possible uh of course
there is some sort of coordination in
the background all the time but at the
end of the day uh it's not that Iran
needs to to approve any attack carried
out by Hamas it support the movement it
support its activities but tactically
operationally on the ground Kamas is
independent to do what it wants what he
able to do so actually what we saw today
is there is a strategic support by uh by
Iran but uh I'm doubtful that Hamas
needed the approval of Iran to Carri out
this attack so so to what extent then
would you say that Hamas is a tool for
Iran um such as other groups like
Hezbollah in
Lebanon well there is a difference
between kisala and Hamas in so many ways
kisala is a
movement actually the spearhead of
Iran's activity uh in the Middle East
and Kamas is a Palestinian movement a
Sunni movement that actually supported
by Iran not because of the ideological
reasons yes of course there is of course
both both uh mov and Country uh want to
destroy the state of Israel but one is
Sunni one is Shiite so it's more uh less
ideological more uh in interest wise in
so many ways so it's not that um uh
Hamas is uh similar to kisala in that in
that effect but we have to understand
what Iran is trying to do is actually
build a circle of fire around the state
of Israel it want to deter Israel from
Attack Iran so it uses kisala it uses
other movement uh organization
organization like the sh in uh movements
in Iraq let the in Yemen and like the
like Hamas in the in the Gaza strep and
West Bank in order to constantly press
Israel in so many so in that way it's
similar tobala butala and Iran has
strategic coordinated relations that
it's less uh than what we see today
between Iran and Hamas again Iran is
backing Hamas in so many ways uh but
from from tactical reason operational
reason Kamas is really independent in
its own ways and and I I was reading
today so Iran has this goal of
annihilating Israel by what one person
has described as a Thousand Cuts um and
that goes along with what you saying
building this circle around um Israel so
is Hamas for Iran one of those Thousand
Cuts that would contribute to the
destruction of
Israel definitely um you know wean in
Hamas looking the long-term solution
it's not that they're thinking that they
can destroy Israel tomorrow but they
believe this uh horrendous attack that
occurred in Israel Are One Way Forward
in in its ambition uh Vision to destroy
the state of Israel so that's why we saw
even if Iran didn't know about the
attack tactically it will support it
because it's really uh it's a part of
its Grand strategy at the end of the day
to make Israel disappear from the map
and the Iran Supreme will supported now
it's important to say one important
thing despite the fact that we uh again
we can only assume from what the
American Administration is saying and
what Hamas saying on the ground that
there is no coordination between Hamas
and Iran before the attack itself I'm
not saying Iran won't support Hamas
actively in uh in in days to come we
still in the beginning stages of the
campaign of Israel against Hamas and if
Hamas will find itself in a dire
situation we cannot rule out that Iran
will actively support uh Hamas not only
by uh trying to send arms or other
elements but also maybe threatening
Israel to stop its activity in Gaza STP
so the fact that we didn't see this kind
of tactical cooperation doesn't say we
won't see that in in days to come yeah
and and the timing of these attacks that
we saw on Saturday um they look like or
you could you know see them as being a
means and disturbing what has been this
building of improved relations between
Israel and other Arab countries I'm
talking though particularly between
Israel and Saudi Arabia um it would
definitely be in Iran's interest for
Hamas to attack and um create what it
has created this this uproar and Destroy
any Goodwill that may have been coming
from Saudi Arabia towards
Israel most definitely I think that uh
Iran is really really annoyed from the
normalization uh uh between Israel and
the Gulf States and especially this
Prospect of nalization between Israel
and Saudi Arabia this is something that
put real Jeopardy towards Iran Iran see
this kind of coordination between isra
and S radi something that really
jeopardizing its core interest uh in the
region and Beyond so in that regard it's
not that Hamas initiated that uh because
of Iran uh Ambitions or trying to uh
push some obstacle in in uh
in the relations between Israel and
Saudi Arabia but for sure Iran
understand that it held that in that
regard so it's it's will support it I
think that even more than that what
Kamas is trying to do right now despite
the fact that probably it started like
we mentioned the campaign alone they
want to gather Iran right now into the
campaign we saw what Muhammad the head
of the uh uh of Kamas actually in Gaza
STP trying to say trying to do in the
beginning stages of the campaign trying
to call for uh other uh fronts to be
open and I think that is the
normalization is something that Iran can
relate to but we have to understand one
important thing that Iran is very
hesitant to open new fronts it hesitant
to uh get into uh development that it
cannot foresee how it will develop into
the future so it's not that Iran will
jump into the uh uh the events only
because of realization between Israel
and Saudi Arabia I'm sure they
understand that it helped them in that
regard but I think they would try they
would TR think twice whether to support
Iran Hamas actively again I'm not saying
they're not going to do that but not
only because of normalization they will
try to help Hamas okay Danny citz with
the institute for National Security
studies in Tel Aviv Mr satz we certainly
appreciate your time excellent analysis
too on the nuances of the Iranian
connection to all of this thank you
thank you very
much